PF2e Table Companion -- design document

PF2e Table Companion -- design document

 2026-09-18 · @Someone

Problem and purpose

The tool's job is to put the rule on the table so nobody has to remember it or argue about
it. Six players and a DM who wants the full picture means combat drowns in questions
("what's your AC?", "what does sickened do?", "is that buff still up?"), and outside combat,
what a character is allowed to attempt gets decided by memory instead of by the
character sheet.
Three concrete failures today:

    Numbers live in six heads. AC, saves and Perception are asked across the table every
    round; a +1 status bonus from a song is forgotten two turns later.
    Conditions are fuzzy. Fatigued, sickened, frightened and off-guard all sound similar and
    nobody is sure what stacks.
    Permission is adjudicated from memory. A player says "I try to read the document,
    that's a Society check"; the DM says no. The feat or skill action that settles it is on a
    sheet nobody has open.
The companion fixes this by holding the rules as data and computing the answer: every
number the table needs is on screen, every condition and buff shows what it does right
now, and every activity a character can attempt in the current mode of play is listed with
the requirement that makes it legal. The DM keeps the full view; players see what their
characters would know.
Scope: Pathfinder 2e Remaster (Player Core, Player Core 2, GM Core). Legacy names such
as flat-footed are not used.

Design principles

Every later decision in this document is checked against these six rules.
 1. Rules live in data, not in heads. A condition, a buff or an activity is a structured record

    with its modifiers, duration and requirement, so the app can compute rather than
    describe. If it can't be computed, it is shown as rule text, never left out.
 2. One truth, two audiences. The DM and the players read the same state. The DM sees
    all of it; a player sees their own character fully, the party's public numbers, and only
    what they would know about monsters.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 1 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

3. The mode of play decides the screen. Encounter, Exploration and Downtime are first-
    class states of the app, and each shows the actions and activities that belong to it.

4. Everything a character can do comes from their sheet. Actions, spells and feats are
    listed per character from imported data, not from a generic menu. "You can do this
    because of feat X" is the answer to every dispute.

5. The app puts the rule on the table; it does not adjudicate. The DM still rules. The tool's
    job is that the ruling takes ten seconds and everyone can see what it was based on.

6. Built for a phone in one hand during play. Big tap targets, the current turn always
    visible, nothing more than two taps away. Correct-but-slow loses to the DM's memory.

A corollary of rule 1: wrong rules data is worse than none. Every rule record carries a
source reference (book and section) and is editable at the table, and anything encoded
from memory rather than from the book is flagged as unverified until checked.

Roles and views

Two roles, one shared state: the DM edits everything, a player edits their own character
and reads the rest. Monster details are not merely hidden in the UI; in the shared version
they are stored where a player's client cannot read them at all.

What               DM                    Player (own      Player  Player (monsters)
                                         character)       (other
Name, initiative,  edit                                   PCs)    read, unless the
                                         edit initiative          monster is marked
                                                          read    unrevealed
                                                                  not visible
turn marker                                                       not visible

HP, temp HP        edit                  edit             read    read
                                         edit base,       read
AC, Fort, Ref, Will, edit                computed                 read
Perception                               shown            read
                                         edit             read    read what the
Conditions (with   edit                                           monster has shown
value and rounds)                        apply to self    read
                   edit, apply           and party        names
Buffs and debuffs  to any                                 only
(typed modifiers)  target                read own, full
                   read all              text
Spells, feats,     sheets
actions from the
sheet

                                                                  Page 2 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

What              DM                     Player (own  Player       Player (monsters)
                                         character)   (other       not visible
DM notes, monster edit                                PCs)
statblock                                not visible
                                                      not visible
                                         read
Mode of play,     edit                                read         read

round, next turn

Design choices behind the table:

    Players apply their own buffs. When the bard plays a song, the bard taps the party, not
    the DM. The DM sees it land live and can undo it. This is what removes the "who tracks
    the +1?" problem.
    The DM can hand a monster's public row to the players (name and conditions) while
    keeping HP and stats private. An unrevealed monster does not exist on the player
    screen until the DM reveals it.
    Players see full spell and feat text only for their own character. The DM opens any
    character's sheet from the tracker instead of walking around the table.
    The DM view is bound to the DM's identity, not to a toggle, in the shared version (see
    Architecture). In a single-device version the same page has a DM/player toggle and the
    split is by honour, which is fine when the player view is a screen everyone can see.

Modes of play and screens

The app has one persistent party roster and three modes that follow the game's own
structure; a Reference tab sits beside them. Switching mode is a DM action and every
screen follows.

  stateDiagram-v2
         [*] --> Exploration
         Exploration --> Encounter: roll initiative
         Encounter --> Exploration: encounter ends
         Exploration --> Downtime: DM calls downtime
         Downtime --> Exploration: back on the road

Exploration is the resting state; Encounter is entered by rolling initiative and returns to
Exploration when the DM ends it. Downtime is entered deliberately and tracked in days.

                                                                         Page 3 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Navigation shell

[ Encounter | Exploration | Downtime | Reference ]  Round 3 [DM]



party strip: six PC chips, each with HP bar and active conditions



mode screen (below)

The party strip is always present so a player's own state is one glance away in any mode.

Encounter (combat tracker)

DM screen:

 Initiative             HP 48/60         Selected: Zuz (bard, L5)
  23 Ogre boss          HP 37/37         AC 21 Fort +9 Ref +12 Will +11 Per +10
                        HP 60/60
     21 Zuz             HP 44/52                (AC base 20, +1 circ Shield)
     19 Ogre 2                           Conditions: none
     17 Rune's PC  Undo ]                Effects: Courageous Anthem +1 status
att/dmg, 1 rd
     12 ...                                                 Shield +1 circ AC, until start
of next turn
 [ Next turn ] [                                  Spells (from sheet)  Feats  Notes


What it does:

    Initiative order with the current turn pinned to the top of the viewport; ties put
    adversaries before PCs (Player Core initiative rule).
    HP with damage/heal input and temp HP; a monster's HP is DM-only.
    Stat line per combatant: AC, Fortitude, Reflex, Will, Perception, computed from base
    plus every active modifier. A modified number shows its delta and, on tap, the
    breakdown by source.
    Conditions as chips with value and remaining rounds. Tapping a chip shows what the
    condition does in this ruleset and its mechanical effect as applied.
    Buffs and debuffs as typed modifier effects with a source and a duration, applied to
    one or many targets at once ("all PCs", "all monsters").
    Next turn advances the marker, counts durations down by the ruleset's timing, expires
    effects, decrements frightened at end of turn, and reminds about persistent damage.
    Undo reverts the last change.
    Character sheet drawer: the DM opens a PC's spells and feats with full text without
    leaving the tracker.

                                                                   Page 4 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Player screen: the same order with monster HP and stats removed, unrevealed monsters
absent, the player's own character expanded with their available actions, and
buff/condition controls for their own character.

Exploration

The screen answers two questions: what is each character doing right now, and what
could they attempt.

    Exploration activity per character (Avoid Notice, Defend, Detect Magic, Follow the
    Expert, Hustle, Investigate, Repeat a Spell, Scout, Search, plus skill activities such as
    Track and Cover Tracks). The choice has a stated consequence the app carries
    forward, e.g. Scout grants the party +1 circumstance to initiative, Defend starts combat
    with the shield raised, Avoid Notice rolls Stealth for initiative.
    "What can I attempt" list per character, computed from the sheet: every exploration
    skill action with its requirement met or not met (trained in Society for Decipher
    Writing, a healer's toolkit for Treat Wounds) and the feats on the sheet that change it.
    The DM sees the same list for every character.
    Rest and camp panel: the 10-minute activities (Treat Wounds with its one-hour
    immunity per target, Refocus, Repair, Identify Magic) and the 8-hour rest with what it
    restores. The panel tallies time so "how long have we been here?" has an answer.

Downtime

A day counter and one activity per character per day: Earn Income, Craft, Retrain, Subsist,
Treat Disease, Create Forgery, Learn a Spell. Each shows its DC by task level and the
outcome per proficiency rank so the DM does not open the table. This is the last phase to
build and the least urgent.

Reference

All conditions, all basic and skill actions, and the party's own spells and feats, searchable,
in the same structured form the engine uses. This is where a dispute is settled when the
answer is not already on screen.

Walkthroughs

Two real moments from the table, as the app should handle them.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 5 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Courageous Anthem in round 2

  sequenceDiagram
          participant B as Bard (phone)
          participant S as Shared state
          participant D as DM (laptop)
          B->>S: Cast Courageous Anthem, targets: all PCs
          S-->>D: Six PCs gain +1 status attack/damage, 1 round, source Bard
          D->>S: Ogre strikes Rune's PC, applies frightened 1
          S-->>B: Party strip shows frightened 1 on Rune's PC
          D->>S: Next turn (Bard's turn starts)
          S-->>D: Anthem expired: duration counted down at source's turn start

 1. The bard picks Courageous Anthem from their own spell list; the app already knows it
    is +1 status to attack rolls and damage rolls and to saves against fear, lasting 1 round.
    Nobody types a number.

 2. The bard taps "all PCs". Every PC row now shows the bonus on tap of their attack line;
    the DM sees it land.

 3. The ogre's turn: the DM applies frightened 1 to Rune's PC. The stat line drops by 1
    across the board because frightened is a status penalty to all checks and DCs. The
    bonus and the penalty both apply: they are the same type but one is a bonus and one a
    penalty.

 4. At the end of Rune's PC's turn, frightened counts down to 0 and disappears; the app
    does this, not the DM.

 5. At the start of the bard's next turn the anthem's 1 round is up and it is removed from all
    six rows at once, with a one-line notice so the bard knows to sustain or recast.

The DM's role in that sequence was one tap: the frightened condition. Everything else was
a consequence.

"Can I read this?" in exploration

 1. The party finds a coded ledger. Rune's player says he tries to read it.
 2. On his own screen, under "What can I attempt", Decipher Writing is listed as available

    because his sheet says trained in Society, with the activity's text: an exploration
    activity, one minute per page, secret check, and the outcome per degree of success.
 3. The DM's exploration screen shows the same row for Rune's PC. If the ledger is in an
    unknown language rather than a code, the DM can point at the languages line on the
    sheet instead: the tool shows both, and the ruling is made on what is written, in
    seconds.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 6 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

4. If a feat on the sheet changes the activity (faster deciphering, or a language-related
    feat), it is attached to that row with its text, so "you can because of feat X" is on screen
    for both of them.

The app never says "allowed". It says "here is the activity, here is the requirement, here is
the feat", and the DM rules.

Rules engine

The engine has three parts: a modifier calculator, a duration clock, and a requirement
checker. Everything the screens show is derived from these plus the data.

Conditions as data

Each Remaster condition is a record with its text and, where it has one, a mechanical
effect the calculator can apply. The ones that carry numbers (from memory of Player
Core; verify each against the book before encoding):

Condition   Modifier                     Applies to                   Also
Clumsy X    status -X                    AC, Reflex, Dex-based
                                         checks (ranged attacks,      lose X × level HP and max
Drained X   status -X                    Acrobatics, Stealth,         HP; drops by 1 per full rest
                                         Thievery)
Enfeebled X status -X                    Fortitude and other Con-     no exploration activities;
                                         based checks                 removed by rest
Fascinated  status -2                    melee attack and damage,     -1 at the end of the
Fatigued    status -1                    Athletics (Str-based)        creature's turn
                                         Perception and skill checks  can't ingest; Retch to
Frightened X status -X                   AC and all saves             reduce
                                                                      flat check DC 5 + X to Cast
Sickened X status -X                     all checks and DCs           a Spell

Stupefied X status -X                    all checks and DCs

                                         Will, Perception, spell
                                         attack and spell DC,
                                         Int/Wis/Cha skills

                                                                      Page 7 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Condition    Modifier                    Applies to                  Also
Off-guard                                AC                          implied by grabbed,
             circumstance                                            restrained, paralyzed,
             -2                          attack rolls                prone, confused,
                                                                     unconscious
Prone        circumstance                AC, Perception, Reflex      plus off-guard; only Crawl
             -2                          Perception when vision      and Stand to move
Unconscious                              matters                     plus blinded and off-guard
Blinded      status -4                   initiative and sound-based  everything is hidden to you
                                         checks
             status -4                                               -10 ft Speed

Deafened     status -2

Encumbered as clumsy 1

Text-only conditions (no modifier, shown as rule text and reminders): broken, concealed,
confused, controlled, dazzled, doomed, dying, fleeing, grabbed, hidden, immobilized,
invisible, observed, paralyzed, persistent damage, petrified, quickened, restrained,
slowed, stunned, undetected, unnoticed, wounded. Slowed, stunned and quickened
change the action count at the start of the turn; the app shows the count, the player
spends it.

Bonus stacking (the modifier calculator)

For each target number (AC, a save, Perception, attack, damage, a skill, a DC):

  value = base
             + highest circumstance bonus + highest item bonus + highest status

  bonus
             + worst circumstance penalty + worst item penalty + worst status

  penalty
             + sum of untyped penalties

Same-typed bonuses never stack, same-typed penalties never stack, untyped penalties
always stack, and a bonus and a penalty of the same type both apply. A +1 status from
Courageous Anthem and a -2 status from sickened 2 net to -1. The breakdown shown on
tap is this formula with names on each line.

                                                                     Page 8 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Duration clock

    A duration in rounds counts down at the start of the source's turn; a 1-round effect
    ends at the start of the caster's next turn. (From memory of the Player Core duration
    rules; verify.)
    "Until the start/end of your next turn" is tied to the affected creature, not the source,
    e.g. Shield and Raise a Shield.
    Frightened drops by 1 at the end of the affected creature's turn. Persistent damage is
    dealt at the end of the affected creature's turn, then a DC 15 flat check ends it.
    Slowed and stunned are applied at the start of the affected creature's turn.
    Minutes convert to rounds inside an encounter: 1 minute = 10 rounds; effects that
    outlast the encounter carry over into exploration with their remaining minutes.
Every effect therefore stores who caused it and which of these timing rules it follows.
"Next turn" runs the clock once for the creature whose turn ends and once for the
creature whose turn starts.

Requirement checker ("what can I attempt")

An activity record states its requirements: a proficiency rank in a skill, a feat, an item, a
class feature. A character record states what they have. The checker returns, per activity:
available, available with a modifying feat (named), or unavailable with the missing
requirement named. It runs per mode of play, so the Exploration screen lists exploration
activities and the Encounter screen lists actions.
The checker only reads the sheet. It does not know about the fiction (is the text a code or
a language?), and it says so by showing the requirement text next to the verdict.

Data model

Two layers: rules data that never changes at the table, and table state that changes every
turn. Keeping them apart is what lets rules be shared across campaigns and state be
undone.

  flowchart LR
          subgraph Rules data
                 CD[ConditionDef]
                 ED[EffectDef<br/>spells, feats, tactics]
                 AD[ActivityDef<br/>per mode]
                 FD[FeatDef]
          end
          subgraph Table state
                 CH[Character<br/>imported sheet]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 9 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

       CB[Combatant]                     time]
       EF[Effect instance]
       CI[Condition instance]
       EN[Encounter]
       SS[Session<br/>mode, day,
end
CH --> CB
CB --> EF
CB --> CI
EN --> CB
SS --> EN
ED -.-> EF
CD -.-> CI
FD -.-> CH
AD -.-> SS

Solid arrows are ownership; dotted arrows are references from state into rules data by
key.

Record           Holds                                   Notes
Character                                                Imported from the sheet; edited
                 name, owner, level, class, ancestry,    only on re-import or by the
Combatant        attribute modifiers, skill ranks, save  owner
                 and Perception proficiency, AC, max
Condition        HP, feats (keys), spells (keys by       Monsters carry a DM-only
instance         rank), items, languages                 statblock and notes
Effect instance
Modifier         kind (PC, NPC, monster), link to        Value drives the modifier via
Encounter        Character or inline statblock,          ConditionDef
                 initiative, current HP, temp HP, base   One instance per affected
                 AC/saves/Perception, revealed flag      combatant so each can expire
                                                         independently
                 condition key, value, remaining         applies-to keys: ac, fort, ref, will,
                 rounds, note (e.g. persistent fire 4)   per, attack, damage, skill:
                                                         <name>, dc, speed, all-checks
                 effect key or custom name, source       Undo stack is a list of prior state
                 combatant, modifiers list, timing       snapshots, capped
                 rule, remaining rounds or minutes

                 type (circumstance, item, status,
                 untyped), value, applies-to list

                 round, ordered combatant ids,
                 current index, undo stack, log

                                                         Page 10 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Record        Holds                                                   Notes
Session                                                               Persists across encounters
              mode (encounter, exploration,
ConditionDef  downtime), exploration activity per                     ~35 records, shipped
EffectDef     character, elapsed minutes,
ActivityDef   downtime day, party-wide effects                        Shipped starter set of ~15
FeatDef       such as Scout                                           common ones; grows from the
                                                                      party's own spells
              key, name, text, modifier template,                     Basic actions, skill actions,
              timing rule, implied conditions,                        exploration and downtime
              source ref                                              activities
                                                                      Only the feats the party actually
              key, name, kind (spell, feat, tactic),                  has need to be entered
              modifier template, default duration
              and timing, text, source ref

              key, name, mode, action cost or time,
              traits, skill, requirements, degrees of
              success text, source ref

              key, name, level, prerequisites, text,
              activities it grants or modifies

Two rules for the model: a Combatant is never edited by rewriting a Character (the sheet
is the source of truth for base numbers), and every rules record carries sourceRef and
verified: true/false so unverified data is visible in the UI.

Rules data and character import

Rule text is typed in from the Remaster books and structured by hand, starting with
conditions and the actions the party actually uses; character numbers come from each
player's Pathbuilder export. Nothing is scraped from a site at runtime.

Where rule text comes from

Source                                   Use it for                   Caveat
Player Core, Player Core 2,
GM Core (the books)                      Condition text, action and   The book is the source of
                                         activity text, stacking and  truth; every record cites
Archives of Nethys                       duration rules               book and section

                                         Looking things up while      No API; do not fetch from the
                                         entering data; linking a     app
                                         record to its page

                                                                      Page 11 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Source                                   Use it for                     Caveat
Foundry VTT PF2e system                  A reference for how to
on GitHub                                structure conditions, effects  Its content ships under a
                                         and "rule elements" as data    Paizo-Foundry agreement
Paizo Community Use                                                     and the OGL, not a general
Policy                                   The terms a private, non-      licence; copy the structure,
                                         commercial fan tool operates   not the data (README)
                                         under
                                                                        Requires the Community
                                                                        Use notice in the app

Data entry is bounded by the party: ~35 conditions, ~60 basic and skill actions, ~20
exploration and downtime activities, and then only the spells and feats that appear on the
six sheets. New feats are entered when a player takes them, not in advance.

Character import

Pathbuilder 2e has an Export JSON option in its menu, and it is the sheet most PF2e tables
already use (Pathbuilder guide). The importer reads from it:

    Identity: name, class, ancestry, level, attribute modifiers, languages.
    Proficiency ranks for skills, saves and Perception, from which the app computes save
    and Perception values with the character's level and attributes.
    AC and max HP as exported.
    Feats and spells by name only; the app matches names to its own FeatDef and
    EffectDef records and lists unmatched ones as text so nothing is lost.
    Items, for requirements such as a healer's toolkit or a shield's bonus.

Re-importing after a level-up replaces the Character record and keeps the Combatant's
current HP and conditions. The exact field names in the export must be confirmed against
a real file from one of the party's characters before the importer is written; the shape
above is what the export is known to contain, not its schema.

Alternatives if the table does not use Pathbuilder: a Foundry VTT actor export (most
complete, includes rule text) or Wanderer's Guide. Demiplane has no export. This is an
open decision below.

Architecture options

Recommendation: prototype the engine and the encounter screen as a single published
web page now, and move to a small self-hosted app the moment more than one device
needs to edit at once. The engine and the rules data are written once and carried over;

                                                                        Page 12 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

only the persistence layer changes.

Option          What it is               Live multi-device  DM view        Effort      When it is the
                                                            locked to      Days        right choice
A. Published    One HTML file,           Only for people    identity
page (Claude    state in the             signed in to the   Yes, in that   Weeks, but  Prototype; or the
artifact)       browser, optional        same Claude        case           in Rune's   whole thing if the
                shared database          organisation                      own stack   group shares one
                                                            Yes, via a DM              screen (DM
B. Self-hosted  ASP.NET Core +           Yes, any phone     link with a                laptop plus a TV
web app         Blazor, SignalR for      with the link      secret token               showing the
                live state, a room                                                     player view)
C. Foundry      code instead of
VTT             accounts,                                                              The real thing for
                installable as a                                                       six phones
                PWA on phones                                                          around a table

                Existing VTT with Yes                       Yes            Setup only If the group is
                a PF2e system that
                already automates                                                      willing to run a
                conditions,
                bonuses and                                                            VTT at an in-
                durations and
                imports                                                                person table
                Pathbuilder

The blocker on option A is access, not code: a page that keeps shared state is readable
only by members of the owner's Claude organisation. The DM and the five other players
would each need an account there. If they do not have one, A is a single-device tool and B
is the shared one.

Option C deserves an honest paragraph. Foundry with the PF2e system does most of the
encounter half of this document today: initiative, conditions with automation, typed
bonuses, durations, and a Pathbuilder importer. The reasons to build anyway are specific:
it is a phone-first companion for a physical table rather than a map-and-tokens VTT, the
exploration and downtime screens with the "what can I attempt" list do not exist in it, and
the group keeps its own data. If those reasons stop mattering, use Foundry.

                                                                                       Page 13 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Shape of option B

  flowchart LR
         P1[Player phone] -->|room code| API
         P2[Player phone] -->|room code| API
         DM[DM laptop] -->|DM link| API
         API[ASP.NET Core<br/>SignalR hub] --> S[(State store<br/>one JSON doc per

  room)]
         API --> R[(Rules data<br/>JSON packs)]

    One room per campaign; state is a single JSON document per room, versioned, so undo
    is a pointer move.
    The server enforces the role table from the Roles section: a player token may write
    only its own character; monster private fields are stripped before broadcast to players.
    Rules data is static JSON shipped with the app and editable in a DM screen; edits are
    versioned so a wrong record can be rolled back.
    Blazor WebAssembly or Blazor Server are both fine; Server keeps the engine in one
    place and is simpler for six clients.

Roadmap

Four phases, each usable at the table on its own. Phase 1 is worth building even if nothing
else follows.

Phase      Delivers                      Needs                 Done when

1. Combat  Initiative, HP, all           Base numbers typed    One real session runs
tracker    conditions with               in by hand;           on it without anyone
           mechanics and                 conditions and a      opening a rulebook
           durations, typed-             starter set of ~15    for a condition
           modifier effects with         effects entered from
           multi-target apply,           the book
           computed stat line with
           breakdown, next turn
           with the duration clock,
           undo, DM/player views

                                                               Page 14 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Phase           Delivers                  Needs                   Done when
2. Sheets                                 A real export file per  The DM reads a
                Pathbuilder import,       character               player's spell from the
3. Exploration  character sheet drawer                            tracker instead of
                with spells and feats,    Exploration and skill   asking
4. Downtime     effects created from a    activities entered as
and multi-      character's own spell     data; the party's       The "can I read this?"
device          list, the party's spells  relevant feats          walkthrough works
                and feats entered as                              end to end
                data                      Downtime activities
                                          as data; a host for     Six phones, one DM
                Mode switching,           option B                laptop, one session,
                exploration activity per                          no paper
                character with carried
                consequences, "what
                can I attempt" with
                requirement checking,
                rest and camp panel
                with the time tally

                Downtime activities
                with DC and outcome
                tables; if the group
                needs six phones
                editing, the move to
                option B

Rules-data entry runs alongside every phase and is the actual bottleneck. Each record is
entered once from the book, marked verified by whoever checked it, and never trusted
from memory.

Open decisions

These need an answer from Rune or the DM before the phase they gate. None of them
blocks phase 1 except the first.

    Where does it run? Do the DM and the other players have accounts in Rune's Claude
    organisation (option A works shared), or is this one screen at the table now and option
    B later? Gates phase 1's persistence layer.
    Which sheet does the table use: Pathbuilder, Foundry, Wanderer's Guide, Demiplane?
    Gates phase 2; Demiplane means manual entry.
    Do players see anything about monster health? Nothing, or a coarse state (unharmed,
    hurt, badly hurt, down)? Default in this document: nothing.

                                                                  Page 15 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Should a player be able to apply a condition to a monster ("I tripped it, it's prone"), or
only propose it for the DM to confirm? Default: propose; the DM confirms with one tap.
Initiative ties: the book's rule (adversaries first, PCs decide among themselves) or the
DM's own house rule?
How much rules text gets bundled: conditions and actions only, or every spell and feat
the party owns with full text? Full text is the useful version and roughly doubles data
entry.
Does the DM want a way to add a house rule as a record (a custom condition or effect
that persists across sessions)? Default: yes, it is the same form as a custom effect.
Name for the thing. "Table Companion" is a placeholder.

Risks and caveats

The biggest risk is not technical: a tool that shows a wrong rule with confidence is worse
than the DM's memory, and the DM has to want it on the table.

Risk                                     Why it matters                    Mitigation
Wrong rules data
                                         One wrong condition modifier      Every record cites its source;
                                         poisons every computed            a verified flag is visible in
                                         number and the group stops        the UI; records are editable at
                                         trusting the app                  the table; the modifier
                                                                           breakdown always shows its
Rules cited from memory                  The condition table, the          sources so an error is
in this document                         duration timing (round            traceable
                                         durations count down at the
DM buy-in                                source's turn) and the            Check each against the book
                                         stacking rule are written from    before encoding; treat the
Data entry never finishes                memory of Player Core             table above as a draft

                                         The DM is the one who has to      Frame it as more visibility for
                                         look at it every round. If it     the DM, not less; he confirms
                                         feels like it takes control from  player-proposed conditions;
                                         him, it dies                      nothing adjudicates

                                         Spells and feats for six          Enter only what is on the
                                         characters is real work and it    sheets; unmatched names
                                         grows every level                 show as plain text rather than
                                                                           blocking; players enter their
                                                                           own

                                                                           Page 16 of 17
PF2e Table Companion -- design document

Risk                                     Why it matters                 Mitigation
Access to a shared page
                                         If the group is not in one     Decide the runtime first
Phone usability                          Claude organisation, option A  (Open decisions); phase 1 is
Licence                                  cannot be shared and the       designed to work on one
                                         multi-device promise is        device regardless
                                         broken
                                                                        Current turn pinned, two-tap
                                         Six people on phones with      maximum, tested on a real
                                         small tap targets under time   phone before a session
                                         pressure
                                                                        Non-commercial, includes the
                                         A fan tool must stay inside    required notice, uses rule text
                                         Paizo's Community Use Policy   not art

What this document does not cover: monster statblock import (the DM types the five
numbers per monster for now), hero points, spell slot tracking, and Kingmaker-style
camping subsystems. Each is a candidate for a later phase and none changes the model
above.

                                                                        Page 17 of 17
